This directory contains all code used to generate descriptive statistics and other summary measures for the data analysed in the Burstiness paper and pre-print. Specifically, the bulk of the supporting information presented in the supplementary material is generated using code in this directory. In addition, some of the figures in the supplementary material are also generated using scripts in this directory. 

`A1_FileNumSummaryTab.m` summarises the number of files (daylong recording files or validation data files) at each age (3, 6, 9, and 18 months) considered in the Burstiness paper/pre-print for all datasets analysed. This script also prints the number of infants who have data at all four ages for LENA daylong and validation datasets as well as the number of validation data files that do not have three 5-minute sections annotated.

`A2_LdaySegsDurAndNumsSummaryTabAndStruct_No0IviMerged.m` computes summary statistics as well as more granular data describing the durations and numbers of all sound segments labelled by LENA in the LENA daylong data. Reported summaries and data files are based on data prior to merging sound segments of the same type separated by 0 s IEIs. This script also generates figures based on computed summary statistics. However, these figures are not presented in the supplementary info for the Burstiness paper/pre-print. Relevant figures are plotted after combining computed summary statistics from `A2_LdaySegsDurAndNumsSummaryTabAndStruct_No0IviMerged.m` and `A3_LdaySegsDurAndNumsSummaryTabAndStruct_0IviMerged_ChnAdOnly.m` (for key segments *after* merging segments of the same type separated by 0 s IEIs; see below), and the relevant script is provided in `A5_Plotting`.

`A3_LdaySegsDurAndNumsSummaryTabAndStruct_0IviMerged_ChnAdOnly.m` computes summary statistics as well as more granular data describing the durations and numbers of key segments (infant speech-related, infant non-speech-related, adult) as labelled by LENA in the LENA daylong data. Reported summaries and data files are based on data *after* merging sound segments of the same type separated by 0 s IEIs. 

`A4_KeySegsVocNumVocDurSummaryTabsAllDataAndDataStuctForValData.m` computes total durations and vocalisation counts for key segment types (infant speech-related, infant non-speech-related, adult) as well as associated annotation types as applicable for all datasets. These totals are computed after merging segments of the same type separated by 0 s IEIs and are broken down at various levels (e.g., file level totals by vocalisation and annotation type, totals by vocalisation type and age, etc.). Also computes summary statistics and more granular data describing the durations and numbers of key segments in the validation datasets. Requires `GetDataSummaryDetails.m`.

`A5_TotDurAndPropDurOfTotAudioForKeySegsTab.m` computes total combined duration of key segments, total combined proportion of key segments with respect to total audio duration, as well as total audio duration (combined total duration of daylong recordings for LENA daylong data and combined total duration of 5-minute sections annotated for validation data) for all datasets. For LENA daylong data, the total combined duration and proportion of `SIL` (silence) segments are also compputed. Finally, some of this information as well as summary statistics describing the variation of daylong recording durations are printed to console. 

`A6_Num0IviMergesAndNumMergeChains.m` computes the total number of instances where *n* $\geq$ 2 vocalisations of the same type separated by 0 s IEIs are merged into one for key segments for all datasets (supplementary table S6 in the Burstiness paper/pre-print). Also generates supplementary figure S22. 

`A7_NumResponsesSummary.m` computes the number of various response types (yes, no, NA) for infant speech-related vocalisations (adult response) and adult vocalisations (infant speech-related response) for all datasets and generates supplementary figures S27-S29 in the Burstiness paper/pre-print). 

There is one validation data file (`0014_000301`) that has one 3-minute section due to human error (see Section S3.1 in the supplementary info for the Burstiness paper/pre-print). Both `A4_KeySegsVocNumVocDurSummaryTabsAllDataAndDataStuctForValData.m` and `A5_TotDurAndPropDurOfTotAudioForKeySegsTab.m` account for this when computing relevant totals. 

For more specific details, please read comments about paths and other notes in the files before executing them.
